{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh17320\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Dear San Francisco, \
\
I\'92ve lived in you for almost ten years and I hardly know you. I\'92m deciding how to leave you. It\'92s surprisingly difficult. \
\
For all of our differences you\'92ve become my home and have memories locked in a scattering of blocks. But thrill is absent. Instead there\'92s a fog rolling in. \
\
Your winds come again as the sun slips away.\
\
I know your four-way stops \'97 cars whose humans throw right-of-way out the window \'97 pedestrians on the brink of death at every crossing. \
\
Your dogs and street trash. Your brunches and cocktails. \
\
I know your steep inclines and knee-breaking descents. The sweet smell of jasmine that clings to rotting fences, pristine and decaying Victorians slammed side by side in neighborhoods atop subterranean rivers. That ever present seismic uncertainty and impending retrofits. \
\
Your wealth, your bitcoin, your Eucalyptus and coffee. \
\
I walk the streets and stare through windows whose lights flicker beyond permanently drawn broken blinds and Ikean gauze. \
\
I\'92ve spent days watching the sun shift through Folsom street elms. \
\
I choose blocks based on moods. I pick faces to toss grins towards in hopes of a return. \
\
I\'92ve run through your shadows with glee and fear. I\'92ve clutched my keys between each finger and passed a thousand eyes. \
\
You are not a kind city. But you aren\'92t cruel either. You\'92re simply a pile of stucco and lath atop sand dunes and granite, ghost ships and burial grounds. Your bars close early and trap us here in that blanket of mist that whispers \'93go home.\'94 And we do. Over and over again. Another Campari please, melting away in the red light. \
\
You are as impermanent as your weather and as fickle as your shade. \
\
You are not my city but you\'92ll belong to whoever claims you.\
\
Ownership brings a strange fight. Most fervent are those born and raised. \
\

\i Equity
\i0  is a word that rings through.\
\
Yet it seems a climb up Jones forever to get there. }