{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11840\viewh16520\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 There\'92 no distinct beginning, just a vague, warm memory of a childhood friend\'92s computer off the kitchen where his mom would be baking cookies and we would be watching cartoons requiring the latest flash plug-in. There were already frustrations at dial-up speed, but what was I, eight?\
\
That inherent social nature of the internet has remained constant. Maybe the early Angelfire sites and their counterparts were the most autonomous services. To design a page was to recognize you had a possible audience of strangers throughout the world, assuming you\'92re a critical, self-aware young adult. This was pre \'93To Catch a Predator\'94 fourteen year old me, copying and pasting html, trying to make her love of Linkin Park blink and sparkle across 
\i her
\i0  page. \
\
Designing the space became less necessary as more formulaic personality questions and layouts were prescribed. A blank slate became the grid of a message board; not until MySpace would I encounter that need for basic html again, but always within Tom\'92s grid.\
\
Hindsight tells me these were the Wild West days of the Internet. I was too young to understand or appreciate the simplicity of those sites, the slowness of accessibility and how that might affect experience and comprehension. This was before the internet became the mobile constant it is now. One needed a giant desktop computer or a gloriously heavy laptop and a literal line into a wall to log on. That requires tremendous privilege; the idea of increasing accessibility to the masses should \
\
It seems analogous to most historical account of Capitalism and its effect on personal and public spaces. \
\
 conversations surrounding moderation and censorship just weren\'92t \
\
4 chan was an infrequent visit, but an early memory. An awful board called \'93School Scandals\'94 where middle schoolers could post gossip about one another, thankfully shut down by horrified parents. A LiveJournal that if I\'92m feeling nostalgic can still look back on and then cringe my way back to reality. \
\
\
\
\'97\'97\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 I take the internet for granted. \
\
I remember when teachers would scoff at the use of Wikipedia for information. It seems to have withstood the test of \'93immediate gratification\'94 time (for now) \'97 a space enriched by the people, for the betterment of the people, where the danger of 
\i anyone
\i0  editing is just checked by the next editor. It\'92s simplicity of design and usage has remained, becoming influential to the way millions of people access information. Of course some criticality, cross-checking and further investigation is required.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 I realize those smaller, slower, hand-crafted sites still exist outside of the giants: Amazon, Facebook, Twitter, Instagram. But the giants have fostered - embedded - terrible new habits within their fleshy users. Hunting for things takes time, the very process of reading has shifted, algorithms make calculated guesses based on the tastes of the masses. To turn them OFF is to stumble through hidden and clumsy settings menus. Partnerships between companies tighten the vise.  \
\
I have to make it a point to try and hunt. It has also become a matter of legislative and political action to protect the interest of that free internet space. I have faith that the people can always regain control, or at least get savvier trying.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
And there are still moments when I\'92ll be pleasantly surprised - when something has yet to be tapped by marketing or advertising data collection endeavors. There was a time on YouTube where I\'92d be linked to videos of songs people had uploaded, often direct recordings of records spinning, that had next to zero views with all of the ambient warm noises of their homes behind the song. That personal, explorational aspect of the internet is the thing I enjoy most. A connection with some stranger in the world who decided to share some treasure before the algorithm got too good. \
\
\
\
I take the internet for granted. I remember when teachers would scoff at the use of Wikipedia for information. I can\'92t think of a more fantastic and beneficial source. A space that is run by the people, for the betterment of the people, where the danger of anyone editing is just checked by the next editor. Of course some criticality is required, but what a starting point. \
\
\
\
}