{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh18540\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 https://colorlibrary.ch/\
\

\i Color Library
\i0  is a non-profit website that offers color separation profiles for artists and designers. \
\
The home page is a tiled, scrollable set of full-color images that remain static - but when a user clicks the left or right arrow they will be led to the same images with a different color separation. These profiles are clearly labeled at the top left corner. Their exact Pantone numbers are available, as well as the option for purchase. \
\
Four distinct headers lead to a separate function of the website: How to Use, Test it, Profile in Use and About. How to Use contains well-defined sections that clearly illustrate how the program works, but also provide a general understanding of how and why color separations could lead to interesting, economical and exciting ways to think about image and content production. Users can upload their own images and apply various profiles to see them in action. There is also a list of other studios and designers who have used the profiles in their own works. \
\
I appreciate the simplicity and organization of the site. Capital exchange is present should one decide to purchase a specific profile - but first and foremost is the comprehensive, generous nature of the tool. \'93How it works\'94 is transparent enough that one could take this information and dissect it alone in an exploratory manner. So often internet \'93tools\'94 used by giant companies keep their strings hidden; goods are automatically exchanged for a price, but no criticality or understanding of the process is necessary, and a learning opportunity is missed.\
\
This website was specifically a research project undertaken by ECAL and funded by another institute in Switzerland. I imagine students and perhaps a handful of individuals have access to and maintain the site - but it probably doesn\'92t require much maintenance; perhaps periodic updates of new works and processing profile orders. \
\
I always appreciate when a beneficial tool is made easily accessible and transparent. For the most part, this service is free, and to have more sites like this that support creativity while teaching new skills is vastly important. \cf2 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\
\
\
http://www.nndb.com/\
\
I guess the thing about the Internet2019 is that constant need to check one\'92s sources and dig deeper. 4chan\'92s legacy and other similar sites leave a distinct morally-questionable trail when entering certain levels of the web. I suppose this is what happens when you leave the ignorant, big-brother bliss of incredibly contained sites like Facebook, Instagram, Twitter. \
\
I first encountered NNDB in my first year of city college in 2009. A global studies professor had listed the site as an \'93interesting\'94 tool. It\'92s original function as a mapper of notorious individuals seems broken. At one point a person could type in a name of a person, present or past with any kind of notoriety, and it would find connections amongst other individuals or companies. \
\
As a political research device it was very illuminating. NNDB \cf2 provided startling context to otherwise opaque individuals -\cf2  politicians and their roles on various boards, private or public. \
\
The site is relatively dated looking but simple enough to navigate. While the mapping function seems broken, single names can still be searched and a kind of C.V. pops up, linking to other content. \
\
However, ten years later this site seems like it needs to be taken with a giant grain of salt. While it can provide curious information, I also see it fostering intense paranoia amongst some of the worst members of the internet. Its copyright is owned by \'93Soylent Communications,\'94 whose other website is Rotten.com. Not recommended.\
\cf2 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\'93
\i In our current age of \'93big data,\'94 with players such as Google, Instagram, Yelp, etc. that often make having your own individual or small company website obsolete, what values might such a website provide? Choose two specific websites that embody these values. (Think of a website for an individual person/presence or a small company/organization.) Describe each website. What does it feel like to read/view/use, navigate around, and return to it? Who specifically do you imagine coded the website, and who might update it? (Is it the same individual?) Why is this website important to you personally?\'94\
\
\
}